In this video, we're going to download
and install Android studio which is the
program we're going to be using in this
course to write our Android applications.
Now just a reminder that this is the Mac
video so if you're running a Windows or
Linux machine then there's separate
videos you can follow along with and
watch for those operating systems in
this section of the course but if you're
using a Mac you're on the right place.
So let's get started
now you can install Android studio by
going to developer.android.com or you
could have typed android studio into
your search engine to find the link and
when you get here there's an option down
here to get into on studio so I can
click on that and it should recognize
that you're on a Mac automatically which
it has for me I can click on download
Android studio I can agree to the terms
and conditions by checking the check box
and click on the download button we're
going to save this and we'll just pause
the video now - this is actually
downloaded and actually while that's
downloading one thing to be aware of is
that this new version of Android studio
version 3.0 is very different to the
previous version and it has a number of
new features that weren't available in
that earlier version so things like the
new layout designer for example so you
will need to be using Android studio 3.0
or higher for this course now if you've
already got Android studio 2.3 installed
you'll still need to install this 3.0
version for this course in Android
studio 2.3 will automatically update
itself so make sure you install the
update when it's offered
all right so you can see that in the
bottom left hand corner it's downloaded
for me now so I'm going to open the dmg
file so you'll never get to the folder
if you can't open it the way I have in
the Chrome browser we'll give it a
moment to start up and to install it
we'll just drag the Android studio icon
over to applications and you can see
this is actually copying into applications
now that we've done that we can close
down the Installer and we can close down
the browser then what I can do is just
open finder go to applications and I can
double click Android studio to open it
you can see that it's verifying Android
studio so I'll just close on the finder
what it's doing that and we may be
prompted with a security error and if
that's the case I'll show you how to fix that
ok we're going to click on open to open
Android studio after it's verified we're
going to select do not import settings
and we don't need to do that because
we're not importing from a previous
version of Android studio so click on ok
now that's security exception you may
get a security error the first time you
install this and if that's the case I'll
just show you quickly what you need to
do if you do get that security error and
you just come over here and click on and
go into system preferences then you go
into security and privacy and go into
general and on this screen here there'll
be little option that says words to the
effect of we couldn't open Android
studio and to open anyway and you'll
click on open anyway from there and that
will open Android studio for you but in
my case I didn't get that exception so I
don't need to do it so Android studio
went through and looked for the step the
software development kit repository to
figure out what it needs to install on
your computer or rather it downloaded it
from the Google services then we've got
this wizard so I'm going to click on
next you've got an option to go into
standard or custom so we can just leave
it on standard then click on next we've
got an option here to choose which theme
we want to use and it's basically the
background color and does color all the
fonts I'm going to leave it on the
default but if you wanted to you could
choose dark yellow and get a darker
looking theme which is probably a little
bit better on the eyes but I'll stick
with the default and I'm going to click
on next so next we've got a review of
the settings and what's going to be yeah
downloaded and installed for us so I'm
going to leave everything on the
defaults there and click on finish and
then I'm going to click on show details
that just shows us so what's actually
downloading so what I'm going to do now
is pause the video and we'll come back
once the download is complete then just
bear in mind that the download can be
quite large depending on the components
selected and can take a significant
amount of time depending on the speed of
your computer and also the speed of your
internet connection well pause the video
and we'll come back once the download is complete
all right so the installations been
proceeding and we got to the point now
what's running the Intel haxon installer
so what we need to do is it's wanting me
to enter my password so I'm going to do that
that's the password to this account now
by the way you may sometimes get a
dialog asking you to retry at some point
that happens just click retry and that's
because sometimes the downloading of
some components fails for no apparent
reason and retrying it should fix it now
sometimes it does take more than one
retry and I've got no idea why perhaps
something to do with being a busy
network at Google's end and what's this
hack some installation is finished we
just want to check to make sure that's
installed because if there's an error
with hexam and it's not installed properly
we may see an error and I'm just going
to bring up a slide to show you the
error that you may see so you can see
here that this is an error that says
that it couldn't install Intel hexam so
if you see something like that you won't
be able to take advantage of the hex of
acceleration features when you run your
emulator so in the next video when we
configure the SDK you'll need to install
the a RM emulators instead of the x86
ones now the emulator will still work
but will be a lot slower than an x86
emulator running hexam now what are max
using Intel processors should have
virtualization enabled so if you get a
problem it's worth checking at this page
on the Apple support site if that's the
only error then Android studio and the
SDK is installed and we can continue and
click finish but let's go back and see
how the Android studio installation side
proceeded
and get it back to here now you can see
it says silent installation pass so
that's our confirmation that haxon was
installed correctly we've also got to
everything else seemingly installed
there's no errors that we can see there
at this point we can click on finish and
the Android studio 3.0 installation has
actually completed now in the next video
in this section we're going to be
looking at configuring Android studio so
the steps from now on are largely the
same regardless of which operating
system you're using
so skip over the next few videos which
relate to a Linux installation and
installing the java jdk on 32-bit
systems so you won't need to do that if
you have successfully installed android
studio basically the video you want to
watch next now is the video titled
configure Android SDK on all three
platforms, so I'll see you in that video.